Hello, everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, Ricardo Lobs. And today I'm
joined by Doctor Jonathan Mason. He's a professor of
Philosophy at the University of North Florida, specializing in
epistemology. And today we're talking about his book, why
it's OK not to think for yourself. So, Doctor
Mason, welcome to the show. It's a big pleasure
to everyone.
Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to talk
with you Ricardo.
So to start off with, let me ask you
this question. Do you have any idea at all
where this idea that is very common? Actually, that
people should think for themselves comes from?
Uh Well, good question. So, I mean, I know
the a lot of people at least point to
the enlightenment uh as with the idea of not
taking other people's word for it, but doing the
intellectual work yourself. Um So, I mean, that's one
place I got, I think uh a big boost.
But I do think also that even just in
the last five years, uh it's gotten another sort
of like boost and so it's again been on
the forefront and obviously in, in headlines and on
social media. Um, BUT I think it's been the
value of, it's been, again, emphasized, uh, of thinking
for yourself or doing, doing your own research. Um,
YEAH. So it, it's definitely timely I believe.
But what does it mean exactly when people say
that you should think for yourself, what do they
mean by that? Because as we'll go through the
other questions, I guess we'll see that it's perhaps
a weirder idea that people think for themselves or
should think for themselves than it sounds uh when
you first hear it.
Right. Yeah, I think, I think that's exactly right.
So I think, you know, as a kind of
vague motto, it sounds very great and easy to
endorse. Um But then thinking about different ways to
make that more precise or more explicit, some, some
ways seem great and others seem not so, not
so great at all. So the way, the way
I think about it is uh not just, you
know, using your own brain since I think, like,
it's impossible for you to not use your brain
in, in some, in some capacity. If you're even
having beliefs, you're using your brain. Um The way
I think about it is if you're thinking for
yourself, you're acquiring and assessing the evidence on your
own. So the important contrast for me is between
thinking for yourself and deferring to someone else. So
when you defer to someone else, you believe what
they say on their say. So when you don't
have to see their evidence, you don't have to
hear about their reasoning because they say so uh
is your reason for belief? That's not thinking for
yourself as I'm, as I uh use the term
uh in the book. So thinking for yourself is
doing the opposite of that. You are looking at
the evidence yourself, you are making your own evaluation
uh of that evidence. So, I mean, 11 question
that kind of I think was also in, in,
in your question was, well, how often do people
actually do that? And I think not so often
at all. And so even though I think the
people who champion thinking for yourself are often not
thinking about it in terms of like going ahead
and doing all of the all of the evidence
gathering yourself and evaluating it yourself. It's impossible for
us not to be relying quite heavily on others.
Um And so that's where I think there is
a bit of this disconnect between the motto and
the slogan and, and what it actually looks like
on the ground.
A and we're going to get into why that's
the case later on in our conversation. But since
in my first question, you mentioned the enlightenment and
since you yourself are a philosopher, do you think
that this is a common idea also among philosophers
themselves that you should think for yourself? And I
guess that perhaps associated with that and we'll come
to this point later. There's also uh perhaps one
of the reasons why it would be common if
it is common, of course, is that it is
associated with intellectual virtue.
Yes. So, I mean, what, what actually got me
thinking about the, the project in general was this
open letter that was written by a number of
Ivy League professors to incoming uh university freshmen. This
was maybe back in 2019 or 2018. And their
one piece of advice um for incoming students was
to think for themselves like that. That was if
you take our advice about anything, we want you
to do this, we want you to think for
yourself and you know, something about that seems right
and a great piece of advice, but something also
didn't feel quite right about that and that's what
kind of like led to the puzzle but related
to the question more directly. I, I do think
that there's something that we value, especially in uh
the academic world about thinking for yourself. So like
when uh you know, when I am teaching a
class, I want my students to think for themselves.
I want them to be wrestling with the ideas
and the arguments on their own. I want them
to be, you know, cultivating different skills, intellectual skills
and habits on their own. And they, they couldn't
do that if they were just taking my word
for it. Right. So maybe I don't think it's
unique to philosophy, but especially in philosophy, you don't
come to the philosophy uh class just like hear
the answers from your professor, right? You're like, OK,
so just tell me, tell me what the answer
to all these questions are. And now I know
the answer, it's more about the the process, right?
Being able to engage with the reasons, think about
objections, think about ways to answer those objections. And
so that is, um that is thinking for yourself
and that's an important part. I think of uh
academic life. One kind of question then is how
much does that translate to your life more generally?
Right? So the question is, is, is there something
special going on um in school when you're learning
versus when you're going about living, living your life?
And that's where I would think that there, I
do think there's a, there's an important difference, you're
doing something special. Um WHEN you're in school, it's
important for you to be thinking for yourself, something's
gone wrong with your academic life if you don't
think for yourself. Um But once you're not in
that, uh you're not in that phase of your
life, I do think it's perfectly fine. I mean,
that's the theme of the book. It's OK not
to be thinking for yourself in those cases.
And so with all of that in mind, what
is social epistemology and how can we move from
a view of epistemology? That is more based on
the individual one that is more based on society,
on the collective and so on.
Yeah. Good. So there's been a push in epistemology
the last maybe 20 years towards a more social
picture of epistemology. And I think like, traditionally there's
at least a way to think about epistemology as
a very individualistic um project. Um So, I mean,
I think of like Descartes um project uh in
his cogito and he's thinking by himself using his
own thoughts. Uh And he's making his inquiry all
by himself trying to figure out what he can
be certain of what he can doubt. And there
was no need for, for help from other people.
Um Not that there's anything wrong with that, but
I think that's a, that's a picture that's kind
of unlike how we typically go about figuring things
out and inquiring um in the world. So social,
social epistemology tries to take that, that picture of
how we are dependent on others and how we
rely on other people more seriously in our, in
into epistemology, right? So it, it's thinking about how
the beliefs of others are relevant to our beliefs
and the rationality of our beliefs. It's thinking about
the roles that institutions play in generating knowledge and
preserving knowledge, dis, disseminating knowledge. And so those are,
those are both moves beyond the individual, right? So
it's not just about a particular individuals, evidence and
ideas and beliefs, it's the broader picture about how
they fit together with other people, with institutions. Uh
Yeah,
and there's this idea, I mean, I've talked about
this with, for example, Hugo Mercier, four years ago
when he released this book Not Born Yesterday, because
we have this very common idea that people in
general are stupid or are gullible. And so there's
also this very common idea associated with that with
that is the madness of crowds. But actually, now
we also have the reverse in psychology. And I
guess that uh in your book, you would also
explore that idea that is the wisdom of crowds
that is people in collectives usually risen better than
alone. And many times, I mean, if you ask,
if you pose the same question to lots of
people, statistically, you would tend to the right answer,
right.
Yeah. So, I mean, I think two, both parts
there I think are important to uh the book
product. The first is, you know, uh maybe I
don't wanna say everyone's, everyone's an idiot or what
you said. But I do think an important part
is, you know, for almost anything you want to
think about, there's other people that are better at
thinking about that than you are, right? So there's,
there's very few things where you are like the,
the, the the expert or the leading expert on
the, on, on the topic. And so there is
this great resource that we have intellectual resource of
other people who ha who are more informed than
we are more intelligent than we are, have thought
about it longer than we have. And so that's,
that is a very valuable resource and part of
that comes too from, from groups, right? So, like
you mentioned with the wisdom of crowds, I mean,
I think the idea is pretty intuitive too, even
like when students are doing their homework, you know,
collectively checking with other people and checking their answers
against each other is a great way uh to
help figure things out again, it's not perfect. Um
But when you add more people, you have more,
you have more security in terms of like balancing
out biases, balancing out blind spots. And so you,
you, you have a better shot at getting it
right
and associated with that. Uh Of course, we have
to rely or I mean, we can ask you
if we should rely on experts but um who
are the people we should rely on? Exactly. Is
it experts? Is it for example, institutions or for
example, also big numbers of people who all say
the same thing?
Yeah, good. I mean, I think all of those
can be good resources. Um AND it might depend
on the details of the particular case and the
particular question. Um BUT they can all be great
one thing. So one thing I kind of sidestep
a bit in the book is making a clear
uh a clear view about who exactly are the
experts and how do we find them? So, those
are good, important and, and hard questions and there's
a lot of discussion these days about what makes
someone an expert and how, and how do you
find them? And there's a lot of good, uh,
epistemology on that, what I think is, you know,
so, along with that pictures idea that either you're
an expert or you're not an expert. Right. It's
either it's a kind of binary where I think
it's a little more helpful to think about things
uh along a scale, right? People are, people have
more or less expertise and so people are better
or worse at answering a question. So, whereas there
might be this challenge of, well, who exactly counts
as an expert and how can I make sure
that they're an expert that that poses a kind
of hurdle that I think we can sometimes at
least answer. It's a lot easier I think for
us to figure out who's better at answering a
question than we are. Right. So I think it's
pretty easy when it comes to, if I'm trying
to answer a question about World War One, say,
uh there are different friends and colleagues I have
who I think are better, others who I think
are worse and based upon what kind of evidence
they've had, how much they thought about it. And
so I can make that determination without having to
classify them as a full on expert or a
full on novice. I can, I can still think
about, ok, who's better and who's worse and as
long as we can do that, then we already
have, I think this, this way of relying on
others and deferring on them. If we can identify
people who are better at answering the question than
we are, who are more likely to get it
right than we are. Then that's a great resource
that, that gives us a way to rely on
their thinking um, as opposed to our own.
Mhm. But when it comes to these several different
ways that we can rely on others for evaluating
information properly, whether experts, institutions or some other people,
individuals or groups of people. Uh I mean, is
it really reasonable or realistic when it comes to
the idea of us thinking for yourselves that we
alone can really do all the heavy lifting when
it comes to properly evaluating all kinds of information?
I mean, because it, it, it, it, it sounds
so absurd that one single people can just, first
of all amass all the information out there, which
is just ridiculous. But then even if the proper
epistemological tools or cognitive tools to evaluate all of
that.
Right. Yeah. No, I think that's exactly right. I
mean, and that just makes one way of taking
the think for yourself motto where it just seems
utterly absurd. Right? If we, if we were all
each left to our own devices, intellectual devices, there
would be so little of the world that we
would understand and we would be in a terrible
shape. Right. So, one thing that's just great is
that we have these other people both in the
past and the present that we can rely on.
Even just thinking about, you know, the state, uh
the state of just different disciplines, things are getting
so particular and precise. Now you can't even be,
I think like an expert in philosophy or even
like in epistemology, it's becoming more and more narrowed
because there's so much information, there's so there's so
many new ideas and arguments and evidence coming forth
to keep on top of a small segment is
already uh AAA heroic deal, never mind taking on
all of it yourself. So the, the analogy I
use in the book is with a, is with
a, a homeowner doing projects around the house to
keep, to keep the house in order. And I
think the same way there, it's, you know, it's
just completely unrealistic to think of any person that
they can just take care of all of their,
their, their, their home needs themselves. Like when it
comes to plumbing work and electric work, these things
require a level of expertise and a level of
knowledge where it's just not, it's not reasonable to
expect uh many people if anyone to have all
of the, all of those relevant skills and abilities
No, this is actually something that I myself just
by doing this show now for six years have
been, have become increasingly aware of. I've been, it's
just completely impossible for anyone out there to even
have full knowledge of one single discipline. I mean,
if I want to talk with, for example, an
anthropologist about one specific ominous species, I mean, it's
better if I try to find someone who is
specialized in that, in that particular species because we
have anthropology and then we have paleoanthropology and then
we have people within paleoanthropology that specialize in the
different species. So, and, and that's perfectly fine because
no one has time to really become an expert
on everything. It's just, uh, that idea is just
absurd.
Yeah. No, no, I, I think, uh, I think
that's exactly right. Uh, I mean, it's a great
thing that we have this resource in other people
because without it, we, it would, it would not,
it would not go well for us.
And so, uh, but how can we co correctly
identify the experts because that's an issue, right? Particularly
keeping in mind that there are many people out
there on the internet and elsewhere that present themselves
as experts and they aren't really experts. But then
unfortunately, also most people do not have enough knowledge
to be able to, uh, tell if they are
lying or not.
Right. Yeah. Good. So, I mean, I think that
that's one of the key questions. Uh And here,
one thing I like to say about that is
that, that's, you know, the question of who are
the relevant experts is just another question. And when
it comes to answering our questions, some people are
better at answering them than other people. So it
doesn't need to be that we individually always have
to figure out who's the relevant expert to answer
this question. It's fine perfectly. OK to rely on
other people to help us answer that question in
terms of like who are the relevant experts. So
I mean, I um so I think we rely
on other people to help identify the experts. There
are other things I think with, you know, credentials
that help us identify the experts. But that's where
I also think like moving away from just thinking
about experts are not experts and thinking instead about
who's in a better or worse position to answer
this question is a little bit easier to handle,
right? So I don't, you know, if I have
to classify people as you know, who is an
expert about again, say World War One history, that
might be a little bit harder for me to
do to think about who exactly counts as the
experts among the people. I know. But if I,
if I'm just asking myself who's better at answering
those questions than I am, that's pretty easy for
me to answer. I I it's easy for me
to find people who are better than I am.
And so if they're better than I am, um
then that gives me a good reason to rely
on their, on their thinking, right? If there's people
better than them, then even, even even better.
Mhm. Do you think that these questions were particularly
relevant, for example, during these past pandemic, regarding the
pandemic itself and also vaccination and perhaps some other
related, let's say scientific questions like climate change and
so on.
Yeah, I mean, definitely. So I mean, I started
thinking about the these issues before uh the pandemic.
But I do think when the pan, you know,
in the midst of the pandemic, they became hugely
uh hugely relevant and, and were at the forefront,
which was kind of a nice uh from my
perspective, a happy accident that what I happened to
be working on actually became uh relevant more more
broadly outside of just thinking about epistemology. Um So
I think there are uh you know, it's definitely
important identifying who experts are and relying on experts
and, you know, when we have access to so
much information, uh it's hard, it's easy to be
misled. It's easy to fall for, for, for misinformation.
I think one of the chief problems with how
uh thinking for yourself or doing your own research,
what that led to was the idea that well,
as long as if I'm doing the thinking I'm
not gonna be misled or I won't fall, I
won't be duped or I won't, uh, fall for
misinformation where I think the exact opposite is true.
Right. Right. Because if we don't have expertise, if
it's not a field that we're familiar with, we
don't have a very big body of evidence. We
haven't developed the relevant skills for evaluating that evidence.
Then we're gonna be hopeless at, you know, finding
out who the, the fraudsters are and who, who
the, who the true experts are. So, I don't
think so. I think thinking for yourself got put
forward as a kind of safeguard, like protect yourself,
protect your mind, think for yourself. Um BUT it
does the exact opposite. And I mean, and I
think it's easy to see that in, in other
cases too. So, I mean, one, you know, if
we think about um medical diagnoses in general, just,
you know, setting aside the pandemic, you know, if
I'm not, uh you know, if I'm not feeling
well, I can go to the doctor and, and
have them uh diagnose what's uh what's wrong with
me or I can try to run my own
test and make my own evaluation of what's uh
of what's going on. The self diagnosis is, is
notoriously a bad way to go about figuring out
what's going on. It's not that doing my own
research in that way is a nice safeguard from,
you know, the potential bad actor uh doctor. It's
actually more likely to, to mislead me and send
me on, send me down some trail that's not
uh that's not gonna be helpful. So I think,
you know, obviously the, you know, the pandemic and
you mentioned climate change too. Both of those issues
especially here uh in the United States are just
so politicized that I think that adds a whole
another layer of complication into things. But I think
uh the, you know, the, the value of thinking
for yourself really masked a lot of problems or,
and led to a lot of problems because it
gave us, I think a false sense of security
that as long as you're thinking for yourself, you
are bound to, um, bound to be fun. In
fact, going back to that open letter, that's what
I, that's what kind of didn't sit well with
me is this idea of, you know, we want
our students to think for ourselves, for themselves. But
if they think for themselves and come up with,
um, you know, terrible or outrageous answers, we don't
think, well, great. At least you thought for yourself
about it. We think. No, that's, that's the problem.
Like we also want people to get the answer,
right. And that's also an important, uh, an important
thing, not just thinking for yourself but getting the
answer.
Right. Yeah. And I guess that the example of
the medical doctors is a very good one because
actually it's not just the fact that, uh, just
for you to become a doctor, you have to
go through, I don't know how many years of
training. I mean, it's a huge number of years.
But then also if you are a specialist, I
mean, you, you go through even more training and
then, and, and that's, it's that way, it works
that way because, I mean, just for a single
organ in your body, there's so much information. That's
one of the reasons why if you go to
a general practitioner many times they refer you to
a specialist because just what you can know about
the liver itself, the heart, the kidneys is such
a huge amount of information that a specialist is
even better prepared to, for example, properly diagnose you
than even just a general practitioner. And the general
practitioner already knows much more information than just a
common person on the street.
Yeah. No, I think that's exactly right. Yeah.
So, but going beyond experts, do you think that
there would be any, let's say rules of thumb
that people could follow when deciding who to believe
and who to trust?
So, I mean, I think so, like, like I
said, I think it comes down to thinking about
what people's epistemic position is on the question or
how likely they are to get the question, right?
And so I, I do think that there are
some questions that are relevant to assessing that, that
are, that are helpful. So thinking about, you know,
how much um, evidence and what kind of quality
of evidence, um, the person in question has relative
to the issue, um, thinking about what kind of
skills or abilities they have in terms of like,
um, assessing that evidence. And so I could have,
I could have all the medical test evidence of
some specialist, but I don't know what, you know,
I, I can't make heads or tails of it.
I can't, I can look at the, the scans
and it's not gonna do me any good to
have the scans if I don't know how to
um how to properly interpret them, you know, thinking
about intelligence, thinking about intellectual virtue, I think, um
can be, can be helpful as well. Um But
I do think the maybe the best resource there
is not having to make all those determinations yourself,
but, but also relying on how other people are
thinking about who the relevant experts are. Right? So
you don't like that's part, you know, of the
more general theme of the book is you don't
have to do it all yourself, right? So you,
you're confronted with the question of who to believe.
Um But in answering that question, don't be afraid
to rely on how other people are making that
determination and who they see as being better and
worse at answering that question because that's a valuable,
that's a valuable intellectual resource too.
And that's actually something that people should not be
ashamed of. Right. About asking questions, asking about things
they don't know about. Uh, THAT'S actually, I guess
something that we could call an intellectual virtue. Right.
Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, I think part of
it is, you know, intellectual humility in terms of,
like, not assuming that you can figure everything out
yourself. Um, BUT being able to, um find others
and defer to them also, I think as, as
an intellectual virtue and it's what's funny is we
do it in lots of other areas in our
life. Like if we're going to buy, if we're
going to go buy some product, right? We're, we're
gonna look at what other people have to say
what other, what consumer ratings magazines have said about
them. We're happy to rely on other people's insights
there. There's something about thinking though where I think
we have this like default view, like, well, I
can think as well as anyone else can. And
so there's no need for me to rely on
other people there. But, you know, as we've been
talking about, it's just, that's just, I mean, when
you think about it, that's just not right at
all. Like thinking like anything else requires all kinds
of skills or requires all kinds of information and
we're not all the same with regards to that,
right? So we have different people have different insights,
different kinds of expertise. And so it's, it, it's
a shame to miss out on, on those advantages
and even, I guess taking a step back earlier,
we talked about the philosophers, for example. And I
guess that even many times it's obvious that even
if, I mean, even if you don't ask questions
directly to other people, you are still being influenced
by the ideas of other people, right? I mean,
just look at the work of Kent, for example,
he was directly influenced by you by the car
and by a ton of other people. I mean,
they are reading the work of other people. So
how can you claim that you're thinking for yourself
alone?
Well, even, I mean, even just in terms of
developing your own abilities to think, right? So you,
you gain concepts from other people, right? You, the
whole process of education is one that goes well
because you rely on other people, right? Uh If,
if you had to educate yourself, teach yourself everything,
I mean, it would be, it would be um
it'd be a bad picture and that, that's where
I think um we need to be careful to
distinguish um epistemic autonomy, which I think is a
value thing from intellectual individualism. This kind of idea
of like I can do it all on my
own. And I think that picture as you illustrated,
if we, if we really stop to look at
it closely, just doesn't, doesn't make any sense. That's
not the kind of beings we are, we don't
do anything all on our own. Like we are,
we live such interdependent lives and that's not a,
that's not a problem. We're able to do so
much more because of that. Right. It's, it's a,
it's a, it's a great resource again to have
these people that we can rely on, to gain
their insights, to learn from them to be mentored
by them. And so we shouldn't be ashamed of
that. We should embrace it.
And I guess that we can also add here
the fact that when we talk about human knowledge,
it's usually accumulated knowledge, there is knowledge that people
have accumulated across many, many generations. And so if
you were legitimately thinking for yourself, you would have
to go to the bank to the man and
start from scratch,
right? If everyone had to start from square one,
then, right? We, I mean, however, even the best
and brightest could only advance so far and then
the next generation had to start back again. Yeah,
progress would be virtually non existent.
So let's get into some objections to your argument
and you also address them in your book. So
first of all, there's the autonomy objection. So what
is it based on? And do you think that
there are perhaps good points to it or not?
Yeah. So, I mean, I think one question is
just what do we, how should we understand uh
intellectual autonomy or epistemic autonomy? And I think we
have to be careful there that different ways of
understanding it. Um SOME are valuable, some are not
valuable, but they can all kind of hide behind
the banner of autonomy which everyone rightly values like.
So autonomy is valuable. But we gotta be careful.
I think how we think about the relevant kind
of autonomy. So I do think 11 way to
understand uh epistemic autonomy is this kind of individualism
whereas you do it all yourself. Um And that
would raise a problem for the view that it's
OK not to think for yourself. Because if like,
if what autonomy is, is doing it all yourself,
then outsourcing and deferring to other people is like
in direct contrast um to autonomy. But, you know,
in part, for the reasons that we've just talked
about, I don't think that's a very plausible view
of, of autonomy, both intellectual and mo more generally,
right? So even if we just think set aside
the intellectual case and just think about, you know,
autonomous citizens, the autonomous citizen isn't one who relies
on no one else for anything like that would
be like the ideal. There would be like the
hermit who lives on their own, makes their own
clothes, grows their own food. But I mean, that
might be an OK way to live your life.
But that's not the only way to live an
autonomous life. Like we, we are able to do
much more to have much more freedom by inter
by our interdependent lies by relying on other people.
So I think the idea of autonomy as individualism
would be, would present a problem for the thesis
of the book. But that, that's not really when
we look at it a, a kind of a
value. I do think that there are, there are
two other ways to picture uh epistemic autonomy that
are valuable. But I think both of those don't
conflict with, with the thesis. So 11 way I
think of thinking of epistemic autonomy is a kind
of freedom. So like you're intellectually autonomous, when you're
allowed to think about the questions that you wanna
think about, you can pursue the inquiries that you
wanna pursue. No one's telling you what to think
about or how to think about it. You have
that freedom. But I think you can have that
freedom while deferring to other people and relying on,
on, on, on their insights and their wisdom. So
there's nothing about um having to do it yourself
in order to think about the questions you want
to think about. And then the other kind of
epistemic autonomy I think is, is, is valuable, is
a kind of intellectual virtue where I see it
as good uh executive management of your intellectual life.
So the the autonomous person makes good decisions in
terms of how to inquire when they should think
about things for themselves and when they should rely
on someone else instead. And so they manage their
intellectual life in in virtuous, in, in good ways.
Now, that too, I think doesn't conflict with the
idea that you don't think for yourself, uh at
least very often because it could be that the,
the, the best way to manage your life is
gonna require a lot of deference. Right? And given
again the considerations we've talked about how specialized knowledge
is and how much information there is out there.
If we're curious individuals who want to have answers
to more than just a couple questions, we're gonna
have to be relying quite extensively on the insights
and the intellectual work of other people. So, you
know, long story short, I think there's a number
of different ways to think about epistemic autonomy. The
only one that I think would really raise a
problem. This kind of intellectual individualism isn't really something
that we ought to be valued in the first
place.
So in your thesis, there's definitely room for at
least a version of autonomy, right? But perhaps there's
not much room for what we could perhaps call
uh isolation, right? I mean, it's uh being autonomous
is not the same as doing things in an
isolated way,
right. Correct. Yeah. And so in the, in the
book too, I, I rely quite happy on a
lot of um feminist philosophers who coined the idea
of relational autonomy that we actually have autonomy in
relation to other people. That that's what gives us
our, our autonomy. And I think the same thing
carries over into our intellectual world. We can be,
you know, I'm pro intellectual autonomy. I think it's
a great thing. It's just the way we ought
to think about it is a way that's consistent
with interdependence because that's the kind of creatures that
we are,
by the way, when it comes to intellectual individualism.
I am curious about this aspect and I'm not
sure if this is an unfair question because I'm
not sure if you looked into this specifically yourself.
But do you have any idea if uh or
whether it is, uh it has something to do
with culture? There is what I mean by that
is we tend to live at least in the
West, in individualist societies. Do you think that intellectual
individualism could stem from that? And perhaps if we
went into, let's say Eastern Asian societies where cultures
tend to be more collectivist that perhaps we wouldn't
find so much of this issue.
Yeah. No, that's uh that's a great question and
I think a quite plausible hypothesis. So, yeah, like
I, I haven't looked at that but that is
what my guess would be is that um the,
the idea of intellectual individualism wouldn't even look appealing
to, to a lot of cultures that are more
focused on uh collective, the collective life. Um Yeah,
you're right in the West and I think especially
uh in the United States individual individuals and reign
so strongly that I think it is, it's plausible.
That's a carry over that. Ok. Do everything yourself,
don't have to rely on anyone else. That's the,
that's the way to be. Um, BUT as you
say, I mean, I, yeah, I think that's a
mistake but I do think that there, it's plausible
that there are a lot of cultural connections there.
So, you know, it'd be interesting to see some
cross cultural studies that look at how different uh
different cultures value individualism. And if there are these,
these distinctions that match.
So another objection to your thesis that you explore
in the book is the Free Rider objections. So
what is it really about? I mean, is it
about the idea that perhaps if you are, if
you are relying on others, perhaps you are taking
advantage of the work they've done is that it?
Yeah. So, I mean, the, the kind of I
take it the classical problematic Free Rider case is
when you have, uh you know, a bunch of
roommates that share some common area and they, they've
made a decision to kind of equally share the,
the clean up and the maintenance of that, the
kitchen say, uh but then whenever it comes to
cleaning up, you know, the dishes, there's this one
roommate who just always kind of sits back and
waits and knows that someone else will get it
first. And so never ends up doing their share.
They get to enjoy the nice clean kitchen. But
they never actually put any work in. That looks
like a problem. And we want, we wanna like
confront that roommate and say, um, you're doing something
wrong and free riding looks like a uh one
way to make that charge. So I think the
parallel worry would be that if you're not thinking
for yourself, you're just relying on the intellectual efforts
of others. You're a kind of intellectual free rider,
you're gaining all their insights, but you're not doing
any of the intellectual work yourself. You're not, you're
not giving them any insights. You're not, you're not
making any discoveries for them. You're just a taker
and uh just like the roommate, that's a kind
of problematic way to be a member of a,
a community. Um So that's the objection. I don't,
I don't think it's a, it's a good objection.
Um BECAUSE I think the important difference between the
roommate case and the intellectual case is that in
the roommate case, we are, each of the roommates
were imagining have an equal responsibility to maintain the,
the clean cleanliness of the kitchen. Whereas in the
intellectual world, we don't have, we don't all share
an equal responsibility to be finding answers to these
different questions, right? So we do think that specialists
have a, have a special duty, they have a
responsibility to find answers in their area of specialization,
right? Chemists should be the ones who have a
extra duty to find answers to questions of chemistry
and physicists, to questions of physics, philosophers, to questions
in philosophy, we don't think that everyone has like
a equal responsibility to be answering this question. So,
like you and you and I don't have any,
any sort of, I think responsibility to be answering
questions of say uh biology, that's for the biologist
to do. So, I mean, are we, are we
biology knowledge free riders? Um So I want, I
wanna think, well, if we are then I think
it's not kind of a, it's not problematic. Uh
It's, there's, there's not this responsibility that we have.
So it's unlike the roommate case where something where
something goes wrong.
Mhm. Uh Also because in this particular case, if
people are contributing in some way, if they're doing,
let's say their fair share, whatever the fair share
would be intellectually speaking. I mean, isn't that good
enough because, and again, we can't do all the
work ourselves and everyone is relying on the work
of many other people.
Yeah, I mean, I would go even a little
a step further and say it, it's fine if
you don't do anything intellectually. So in intellectual contributions
are one way to contribute to society, but they're
not the only way, right? So maybe you're not
doing anything in terms of like being on the
frontiers of knowledge, but you're providing care for important
people or you're providing entertainment or you're making delicious
food of those are all important contributions to, to
a society. And so II I, we shouldn't think
that everyone has a responsibility to be doing all
the things and contributing to all the different areas
of society, the intellectual realms, the same thing. Like
there, it's fine to, to not, to not be
involved there again, if you want to be great,
like it's, uh, it's open and, uh you're free
to pursue it. I just think there's nothing wrong.
It's ok. If you say it's not for me,
I'd rather do something else.
Uh Also because even when it comes to non
intellectual activities, those are really at the base of
society and even what allows for the intellectual activities
to take place. Right? I mean, if we didn't
have the, is uh people working the essential jobs,
society wouldn't even function to begin.
I mean, that, that is where, you know, I
think the easiest way you could make the case
for it being ok, not to think for yourself
was to think about the extreme, you know, of
someone who's living on the very edge of poverty
and has to be working around the clock to
provide for themselves and their family and there's just
no room for a Christmas to say, wait, you
haven't been, you haven't been thinking about these questions.
You haven't been inquiring about these, these different issues.
Um What kind of an intellectual wrong you've committed?
I think there's, there's just, there's no problem there.
I mean, there's a problem with maybe the state
of the world that makes them live in that,
in, in that, in, in that way. But there's
not an intellectual failure on their part for not
thinking for themselves and, and not inquiring about these
issues.
And I think that makes for a great segue
to my next question. And this objection is probably
the one that really bothers me the most. There
is the Socratic objection, the idea coming from or
supposedly from Socrates that an unexamined life is not
worth living. I mean, I, I say that this
really bothers me a lot because it seems so
pitic, it seems so elitist in intellectually speaking. I
mean, the idea that if you don't examine your
life or whatever aspects Socrates might have been referring
to there, then your life is not even worth
living.
Yeah. Uh, ONE quick side note. So my, uh,
my, my daughter came home from school and this
is a few years ago and told me that
she had, they had talked about a philosopher in
school and, uh, it was Socrates and she said
he said that the unexamined life is not worth
living. And I was like, yeah, and, and her
response was, that's a little harsh, isn't it? And,
uh, that's kind of my response to it. It
does seem, uh, it's, it's overly harsh. I get,
I do, I do feel the tension though too
because I mean, I, you know, as a philosopher,
I really like, especially philosophical questions. I, you know,
I, I would encourage, you know, people to think
about them. I think they're great things that, um,
to think about. But, you know, for the objection
to go through, it has to be stronger than
that. It has to be like, and you've done
something wrong um, by not thinking about it and
that's where I think it's, it's just, it's just
overly strong. So even if, you know, I think
the most, perhaps the most plausible way to put
the, the, the objection is that, you know, these
questions about how should I live? My life are
like so important that you, you know, they're, they're
gonna determine your, the whole course of your existence,
you better think about them um for yourself. But
I think their, their importance actually points in the
other direction, right? So if answering these questions is
very important, it's really important to get it right.
And it's really important to get the right answer.
And if you know the setup of the problem
is you can find people who are better at
answering those questions than you are, then the importance
of getting it right would actually lead you to
rely on their thinking more than, more than your
own, right? Because if you wanna get it right,
the best way to get it right is to
rely on someone else, then you should rely on
someone else. Even regarding these questions in terms of,
you know, ethics and philosophy and things like that.
And also, I don't know if you would agree
with this point, but isn't there also somewhat of
an assumption here that perhaps when it comes to
the idea of the unexamined life, that perhaps it
is just too common for people to just go
mindlessly through their lives. I mean, it's because it's
not because someone is not thinking about whatever kind
of issue like a professional philosopher or using the
technical terminology to think about things or something like
that, that most people do not think at all
about, for example, their own condition, the meaning of
their life and other stuff like that. Ethics, for
example.
Right. Yeah. So, I mean, there is a, so
maybe a different take on the objection to be
like, let's just think about the questions, there are
certain questions that people should confront or maybe that
everyone should confront. Um But even if that's true.
Um So, I mean, I'm not, I'm not sure.
I, I feel some pull to that but I'm
not sure. But let's just say it's true that
there are questions that everyone should be thinking about
that still leaves open how they go about thinking
about them, right? So if everyone needs to confront
these questions, it doesn't mean that they need to
answer them by thinking for themselves about them. Right?
So maybe you should have an answer, but the
best way to get that answer is to rely
on someone else and to rely on their thinking
because they're gonna be better at answering that question
than you are. So, if it's about the questions
more than the answers, and I think then that's
compatible with the thesis of the book in the
sense of like, ok, maybe you need to confront
the question, just don't go from that to thinking
that you're the best suited or you're the one
who has to come up with the answer.
And then another objection is the objection of epistemic
vulnerability. So what does that objection uh refer to?
Exactly.
Yeah. So we, I think we've talked about this
a little bit uh kind of hidden uh when
we talked earlier about uh the, the pandemic. But
I think the idea is when you defer to
someone else, which is what I wanna say. It's
perfectly fine to do. When you defer to someone
else, you rely on their thinking, you rely on,
on, on their, their, their insights. And when you
do that, you make yourself vulnerable to their errors,
right? Because even even the best experts still have
biases, they still have blind spots, they're still fallible
thinkers and you know, worse yet there's still like
there's even bad players out there who are intentionally
um trying to, to deceive you and manipulate you.
So there's, there's dan there's real intellectual dangers out
there um that come with deferring to other people.
So that's right. I mean, the, the problem with
the objection, I think is twofold, one is thinking
for yourself is not an invulnerable thing. So when
you think for yourself, you two have biases, you
two have blind spots, you two are fallible. Uh
And so thinking for yourself isn't a kind of
safeguard that makes you invulnerable. You're, you're vulnerable to
all the same kind of errors that the expert
is. In fact, you're more vulnerable. Like because you,
like if you lack expertise, you're even more likely
to get it wrong and there's even less security
there. So I think we all kind of like
crave a kind of invulnerability. But so one part
of the response to the objection is that that's
just not possible, like no matter how we go
about our, our inquiry, we're gonna be vulnerable, we
can get it wrong and that can have, you
know, that can have quite bad consequences. That's, that's,
that's kind of our, our intellectual uh lot in
life. The lesson I think is um we need
to take steps to protect ourselves when we can
to to put an intellectual safeguards. The mistake I
think is to think that those intellectual safeguards come
from thinking for yourself, right? So just like with
the medical self diagnosis, your self diagnosis isn't a
good uh safeguard to your doctor, right? Your doctor
may, you know, maybe you need to have safeguards
there, but that's where we think about having second
opinions, right? You go to another expert, another expert,
right? Someone who else, someone, someone else who is
highly qualified has the relevant evidence and expertise to
make that determination in relying on multiple experts. You
have a kind of safeguard from the errors or
manipulation of one expert, not by thinking for yourself
and, and, and the same thing with institutions, I
mean, I think we can have institutions in place
that provide a kind of safeguard that prevent bad
actors or, or can, can more easily help identify
bad actors. Um THEN we could as ourselves, right?
So I think the mistake with the vulnerability objection
is to think that well, as long as I
also wrestle with the question or the answer myself,
I'll be able to figure out who's making the
mistakes or who's the bad player who has the
biases. And that's just not true. Like I think
you're just one person and you're actually both, you
know, more often than not, not the best suited
to make those determinations. So thinking for yourself just
isn't the kind of safeguard that I think people
put it out there, um put it out there
to be
and then there's also the understanding objection. So what
are people referring to exactly when they talk about
or they use this objection?
Yeah. So this is, I think AAA good objection
too, which is, you know, we can get a
lot of intellectual goods by um deferring to other
people, right? So when I defer to an expert,
I can get a true belief, I can get
a justified belief. I can get knowledge. Those are
all good intellectual states. But one thing I can't
get is understanding. So understanding it seems is something
that you can only get by wrestling with the
evidence yourself, right? So you can't understand something just
by someone else telling you, you have to think
through it yourself to really understand it. So the
objection goes, if there's this epistemic valuable thing, understanding,
and you can only get it by thinking for
yourself, doesn't that create some sort of obligation or
duty for you to think for yourself to get
this, this good thing understanding? Uh And so I
wanna agree with part of the objection, which is
that understanding is uh a good thing and it's
better, more valuable than knowledge even. Um And I
agree too that you can only get it by
thinking for yourself. So there's this good thing and
you can only get it by thinking for yourself
where I disagree is that I don't think that
that generates some sort of requirement for you to
do it. So it's better, but I think it's
good enough to just have knowledge so we can
get knowledge by deferring to other people. That's not
the best epistemic state that we can potentially achieve,
but it's good enough. And so there's not a
requirement for us to go on and do more
to understand. Again, if you want to, if that's
something, if, if you want to understand the answer,
then again, there's nothing wrong with thinking for yourself
and trying to understand it. But if someone knows
the answer and says, I don't really care to
understand. I'm happy just knowing what the answer is,
I think that's, that's perfectly fine, even though there's
a better thing out there. So it's in a
way, it's like the response is like, is a
denying a kind of maximizing view where you have
to go out and get the very best epistemic
state that you can. I'm saying that some, some
intellectual states are good enough, even though you could
do better in part, because I think you can
always do better. You could always get more evidence.
You could always double check, triple check, quadruple check
and constantly improve your epistemic state. But it's not
necessary like you, you're not required to do that
at least once you've attained a certain, a certain
level.
Uh Also because uh I'm not sure if this
idea would necessarily apply here, but since human knowledge
is constantly evolving, and there's not really one end
point where we can be sure that OK, this
is the definitively correct knowledge. There's nothing else to
learn about this issue. W whatever kind of issue
we we are exploring. And if that's the case,
then even the experts themselves, I mean, they never
have 100% complete, uh, uh, uh, an 100% complete
understanding of what they're studying or what they are
experts in. Right.
Yeah, I think that's right. I mean, because, I
mean, I think, you know, certainty is probably never
there, uh, for us so maybe we can always
be improving and getting closer. Um, YEAH, we're never
gonna max out, we're never ever gonna max maximize
things along those lines. Yeah, I think that's possible.
And so getting into the last objection and this
is one that we ended up already touching on
earlier, the intellectual virtue objection. So, but just to
clarify what intellectual virtue would be really associated with
the thinking for yourself in this particular case.
Yeah. So the way I think about the objection
is that there um that we have a requirement
to think for ourselves because we have a requirement
to develop our own intellectual character. And if you're
not doing thinking, then you're not gonna be developing
your own intellectual character. So, I mean, some, some
intellectual virtues that seem particularly relevant, there are say
intellectual perseverance. So, um that's been thought about in
some different ways. But one way is that to
have intellectual perseverance is to encounter obstacles in your
inquiry and to be able to overcome them and
not, you know, not give up inquiry too easily.
And obviously, if you're not doing uh if you're
not inquiring, you're not, you're not gonna develop uh
intellectual perseverance because you're just not even doing it
just like, you know, you're not gonna develop uh
endurance in terms of running if you never run,
right, you, you, you gotta be doing it in
order to uh develop the those capacities. And so
the objection says intellectual virtues are obviously uh a
very valuable thing. You can only get them by
doing the intellectual work yourself by by thinking for
yourself. And so there's a requirement um a requirement
to think for yourself. Um So a couple of
things that I want that I say about that
objection, the first is um I do think that
there are, you know, so I don't want the
book to, to come off as the idea, like,
don't think for yourself. I still think that there
are plenty of times um when you, when you
should think for yourself. So we, we said briefly,
like for many, you know, for many things, you
can find other people that are better, better at
answering that question than you are. But for some
things you're the best at answering them, right? So
maybe things about your immediate environment or things about
your recent past, you're, you know, you are better
than anyone else that you know, of uh for
answering those questions. And so I do think regarding
that regarding in situations like that thinking for yourself
is the right thing to do. There's no, there's
no better route to answering your question. So even
if you are deferring lots of times. There's still,
I think gonna be plenty of occasions where, you
know, if you take the full advice of the
book, you're still gonna be thinking for yourself. So
you still have, I think ample opportunity to develop
um those intellectual virtues. But the perhaps slightly more
uh radical response is to call for a kind
of shift in how we think about intellectual virtues.
So a lot of the traditional list of intellectual
virtues, I think envisions us on like the front
lines of inquiry. And so I think it comes
from this kind of individualistic paradigm that we talked
about earlier where you're on the front lines of
inquiry, you're engaged in it, you have to find
the answers. Whereas now with the within a social
epistemology perspective, we recognize that it's, you know, we
have this interdependent web of people that we can
rely on. And so I think from within the
social perspective, the kinds of things that we should
see as intellectual virtues is gonna shift, right? So
the the the parallel would be, you know, if
we imagine an individual sport, athlete versus a team,
sport athlete, the kind of characteristics you want for
each is gonna differ, right? Because if, if it's
just the one person, then there's a certain set
of characteristics you want them to have. But if
they have a certain role on a team, then
there's different characteristics that are gonna be relevant for
making things to go. Well, so I think it's
gonna depend. And so I think in our sort
of information economy, we can think about there being,
you know, knowledge producers, knowledge disseminator and knowledge uh
consumers. And for most of us, we're consumers, right?
We're not on the front lines of inquiry for
most things, maybe for some things, but for most
things, we're not on the front lines answering those
questions. And we're not primarily involved in like disseminating
the answers from the people on the front lines.
So we're mostly in the information consuming business. And
I think what sort of characteristics and intellectual character
traits we should have to be good information consumers
is different than what the traditional list has, which
has us on the front line. So, you know,
they're gonna be things that are being discerning in
terms of like which voices you're listening to and
what information, um you're getting your sources from, they're
gonna be virtues of attention, what sort of questions
you're paying attention to, what kind of things um
you're ignoring. And so I, I do think that
our list of virtues might need some updating to
the towards this social picture. But once we do
that, then it's gonna be perfectly compatible with the
idea of deferring to other people quite often that
you still have intellectual virtue that you still have
a good intellectual character. Again, relative to the kind
of role that you have in the in the
informational picture.
And so when it comes to something that we've
already talked about here, that is being able to
really recognize uh the specific areas and subjects where
you lack knowledge and you should differ to experts,
for example, and being able to properly recognize the
experts. What kind of intellectual virtue is that? Is
that intellectual humility? Yeah.
Well, I think it's a lot. So the two
that jump out to me are intellectual humility and
epistemic autonomy. So humility in terms of thinking of
knowing your own intellectual limitations, right? So, you know,
you know what you can do what you're good
at and you also know what you can't do
and what you're not good at. And so that's
gonna be incredibly important, I think in trying to
help determine what you should think about for yourself
and what you should defer to others, right? So
it's important for me to understand that if I
look at the climate science data, I'm probably not
going to be able to understand it in any
sort of meaningful way on my own, right? That's
like just a little bit of humility uh that
I have um but also epistemic autonomy as we
talked about it as a virtue was this good
executive management of your intellectual life. And so making
those determinations. Well, so I think those two virtues
kind of go hand in hand, right? The the
in order to make good decisions about how to
go about your inquiry. You're gonna have to have
intellectual humility, right? You can't be, you can't have
an overly inflated view about you and your abilities
or you're gonna make some bad decisions. Um, BUT
you also shouldn't have an overly underestimated view of
your abilities or you're gonna be uh deferring on
things that you are perfectly capable of, of figuring
out yourself. Right. So, you know, if I'm, if,
if I can perfectly find, if I it's easy
for me to find out the answer yet, I'm
always like calling up my wife to like you,
you, you do this for, you figure it out,
then there's something that's gone wrong. Uh There's something
that's gone wrong there uh as well. So I
think intellectual humility and epistemic autonomy, I think are
the two that really kind of shine out in
terms of like being able to make good decisions
and figuring out when to think for yourself, when
to rely on others and uh making good determinations
there.
And when it comes to intellectual virtues, isn't it
sort of an intellectual vice, let's say, for people
to convince themselves that they uh can always just
think for themselves and not rely on others at
all? I mean, isn't that uh some uh a
kind of arrogance and also to some extent, delusional?
Yeah. Right. No. Uh Yeah, I would put it
as intellectual arrogance because you're not, uh you're, you're
definitely not recognizing your limitations, you're not rec, and
you're also not recognizing. Um, SO there's something you're
getting wrong about yourself. You're over here inflating your
own abilities. Um, BUT you're also getting something wrong
with other people. Right. You're, you're unnecessarily downgrading them
because you're thinking, oh, they're no better off at
doing that, uh, than I am. That's making an
error on both fronts. Right. You're thinking of yourself
higher than you should, but you're also thinking of
them as the experts more, you know, more lowly
than you should because they do have expertise, they
do have evidence that you don't have, they do
have skills that you don't have. And so you
need to, to properly appreciate that uh in order
to make good decisions. So the, yeah, the arrogant,
the arrogant person is gonna mis evaluate those judgments,
they're gonna mis evaluate themselves, they're gonna overly inflate
their own and they're gonna, I think mis evaluate
other people by downgrading them unnecessarily.
Do you think that the thesis you present in
your book would connect in any way to ideas
surrounding epistemic responsibility? And if so for example, in
an earlier question, you answer, you mentioned that uh
there are, when it comes to knowledge, there are
producers disseminator and consumers. So if that's the case,
do you think that perhaps there would be different
sets of epistemic responsibilities depending on your role there?
Yeah, good. Uh Yeah, I think that's right. So,
I mean, I do. So this is one thing
that comes to mind when you ask that question
is, you know, for instance, I do think that
experts have a responsibility to think for themselves. So,
uh if so take, you know, for instance, if
you found out that, um you know, the climate
scientists all agreed only because one person, there's one
person who thought climate change was happening and the
rest of the climate scientists all just believe that
because that one person did, even if, even if,
even if they were like the the best, um
it would be a real disservice to, to us
if like they all just believed it because this
one person did. So what gives us as a
broader society, this good intellectual resource is that we
have expert communities where the experts in that community
are thinking for themselves, they are independently assessing the
evidence, making their own determinations about what it supports.
And by doing that, even even if it gives
rise to some disagreements and some agreements, it provides
us with a much more valuable intellectual resource. So
as experts, I think experts def have a different
responsibility that they would be doing something wrong if
they just, you know, found their colleague who they
thought was a little bit better than they were
and then just believe whatever they believe so that
would be doing um that would be doing uh
us AAA disservice. So I think that there is
a particular responsibility for experts and we can think
about them as the uh the knowledge producers, like
the people who are on tho tho those front
lines uh of inquiry. And then sure, I mean,
I think that there, if we think about those
different roles that I laid out, like the knowledge
uh disseminator, like, what kind of responsibilities do they
have? Well, there's things having to do with um
making sure they get it right. They get the
answers right that they're conveying, being able to convey
um those, those answers in a way that's um
digestible to the, to the broader public. You know,
if, if they're not doing that, if they're making
things misleading or unnecessarily convoluted, they're, they're doing something
um problematic. And then yeah, as consumers too, we
can think about different responsibilities that we may have.
Maybe it's responsibilities to um pay attention to certain
types of questions. Maybe it's responsibilities to be evaluating
different sources um correctly and not, and not overly
inflating uh some or over inflating our own uh
our own abilities. So, I mean, I think epistemic
responsibility is a, is a, is a, is a
big umbrella that a lot of things uh a
lot of things um can fall under. And so
I, I definitely don't, don't think or don't want
anything that I say in the book to kind
of like conflict or say, oh, there's nothing, it's
all just um it's all just anything goes, I
guess we could think about the thesis in terms
of responsibility as just saying this, what we, what
I think you don't have is a kind of
epistemic responsibility to be thinking about your, to be
thinking for yourself about all these issues, right? That
when you, when you can identify, um, someone who
is better, uh, at answer than you are, that's
perfectly fine. You're not violating any responsibility by, by
taking their word for it
and by the way related to those different kinds
of roles that people can play, I guess that
they also wouldn't be mu mutually exclusive, right? Because
there are people that are both, for example, producers
and disseminator, like for example, some university professors that
are also science communicators and then even the consumers
themselves, I mean, it's rarely the case that people
are only just exclusively consumers that they keep the,
the knowledge just to themselves and not tell about
it to other people.
Right. Yeah. Well, and you're certainly not a producer
across the board either because like, as we talked
to a special at most, you have one narrow
field where you're finding the answers, right? So assuming
that you have beliefs about a lot of other
things which, you know, we, we, we should, we
probably do, then you're gonna be, you're gonna be
a consumer but a lot of things, even if
you are a producer about some things and a
disseminator but other things. So, yeah, I do. Yeah.
Uh So you're right that we shouldn't think of
these roles as being mutually exclusive that they can,
they can combine in all kinds of ways as
well.
So I have one last question then and basically
to try to reverse the thesis that you explore
in the book. Are there specific cases? And I
guess you've already given us at least one example
of that? But are there specific cases where you
think it is actually not? OK to not think
for yourself?
Yeah. So, yeah, II, I do. Um, SO two,
I guess two cases, one more generally is just
when you're, when you're an expert. So if you're
in, you know, as a, as a philosopher or
at least as an epistemology, I take it that
I have a responsibility to be thinking for myself
about uh these different issues in epistemology that, you
know, it's, it'd be doing no good to the
rest of the world for me just to be
disseminating the beliefs that I've just uh got by
deference to people, to epistemology who are, who are,
who are better at it, um, than I am.
And so I think to just, you know, for
everyone on an individual level, there are questions that
um for each of us that we are as
good at answering as anyone else's, I mean, I
think we tend to exaggerate how many of those
there are but there are some and so I
think when, when you are the best at answering
that question, there would be something problematic with you
not doing that inquiry yourself again, maybe there are
other sort of considerations that can come in and,
and Trump that, but in general, there would be
a problem. So the way I think about going
back to the, you know, the house analogy is
uh you know, there's all kinds of house projects
that there are people who are better than me
at, at, at completing. Um And so I think
there's nothing wrong with me relying on them to
complete those house projects for me. But there's some
that I'm like as good as anyone else as
like taking out the trash and like changing easy
to reach light bulbs. Like I like that's the
limit of my skill, but like regarding those tasks,
I can do them with the best, right? So
I can change an easy to reach light bulb
as good as anyone else can. And so, you
know, maybe there would be something problematic if you
know, in, in those cases, I just refuse to
do that um do that work. And so the
parallel would be like if there are answers that
are easy enough for me to find and that
it's, there's no one significantly better than I am
to answer those questions. My like not inquiring on
my own, my not thinking for myself about it,
but instead relying on someone else might reveal some
sort of deficiency or some sort of character vice
on my part. So I, yeah, I do think
there are some cases and again, I don't want
to, I don't want to say anything about it
ever being wrong to think for yourself. So I
wanna, you know, encourage it and think it's perfectly
fine to do that. It's just, uh, what I
wanna do is remove the responsibility to always be
doing it right. So, it's, it's ok not to
regarding this, this wide variety of questions.
So the book is again, why it's ok not
to think for yourself. I'm leaving a link with
the description box of the interview and Doctor Mason
just before we go apart from the book, would
you like to tell people where they can find
you and your work on the internet?
Yeah. So uh I have uh a, a web
page or you can find me on fill papers.
I have a page on Phil papers. You can
find other things uh that I've written and I'm
happy to hear people's thoughts if they pick up
the book or they wanna react to uh our
discussion here today. I'm always happy to talk more
about these ideas.
Great. So, thank you so much again for taking
the time to come on the show. I really
love the book and also loved our talk here.
So, thank you so much.
Thank you. Um Me too.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by N Lights learning
and development. Then differently check the website at N
lights.com and also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or paypal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
paypal supporters, Perera Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno,
Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam. Castle Matthew Whitten.
B are no wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Condors
Philip Forrest Connolly. Then the Met Robert Wine in
NAI Z Mark Nevs calling in Holbrook Field, Governor
Mikel Stormer Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferger and
H her meal and Lain Jung Y and the
K Hes Mark Smith J Tom Hummel S friends,
David Sloan Wilson, ya dear, Roman Roach Diego, Jan
Punter, Romani Charlotte bli Nico Barba Adam. Hunt. Pavlo
Stassi Na Me, Gary G Alman, Sam Ofri and
YPJ Barboza Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden Broner Douglas
Fry Franca, Beto Lati Gilon Cortez Solis Scott Zachary
FTD and W Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Giorgio,
Luke Loki, Georgio Theophano Chris Williams and Peter Wo
David Williams, the Augusta Anton Erickson, Charles Murray, Alex
Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore Larry Dey junior,
Old Ebon, Starry Michael Bailey, then Spur by Robert
Grassy Zorn. Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas Radick, Mark
Kempel, Thomas Dvor Luke Neeson, Chris Tory Kimberley Johnson,
Benjamin Gilbert Jessica. No Week, Linda Brendan Nicholas, Carlson
Ismael Bensley Man George Katis Valentine Steinman Perras, Kate
Van Goler, Alexander, Abert Liam Dan Biar Masoud Ali
Mohammadi Perpendicular Jer Urla. Good enough, Gregory Hastings David
Pins of Sean Nelson Mike Levin and Jos Net.
A special thanks to my producers is our web,
Jim Frank Luca Stina, Tom Wig and Bernard N
Cortes Dixon, Bendik, Muller Thomas Trumble, Catherine and Patrick
Tobin, John Carl Negro, Nick Ortiz and Nick Golden.
And to my executive producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergi, Adrian
Bogdan Knits and Rosie. Thank you for all.